# Microsoft System Center Management Pack for SQL Server 2014
Microsoft System Center Management Pack for SQL Server 2014 enables the discovery and monitoring of SQL Server 2014 Database Engines, Databases, SQL Server Agents and other related components.

###Details###
**Note:** There are multiple files available for this download.Once you click on the "Download" button, you will be prompted to select the files you need.

Version: | Date Published:
---------|----------------
6.7.2.0|29-06-2016


File Name: | File Size:
-----------|----------
[SQLServer2014MP.msi](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rahsing/TestMP_Repository/master/SQL%20Server%202014/SQLServer2014MP.msi ) | 2.7 MB
SQLServer2014MPGuide.docx | 632KB
SQLServerDashboards.docx | 2.9MB

Microsoft System Center Management Pack for SQL Server 2014 enables the discovery and monitoring of SQL Server 2014 Database Engines, Databases, SQL Server Agents, and other related components. This Management Pack is designed to run by Operations Manager 2007 R2 (except dashboards), Operations Manager 2012 (except dashboards), or Operations Manager 2012 R2.

The monitoring provided by this management pack includes performance, availability, and configuration monitoring, as well as performance and events data collection. All monitoring workflows have predefined thresholds and complimentary knowledge base articles. You can integrate the monitoring of SQL Server 2014 components into your service-oriented monitoring scenarios. 

In addition to health monitoring capabilities, this management pack includes dashboards, diagram views, state views, performance views, alert views and diagnostic tasks that enable near real-time diagnostics and remediation of detected issues. 

**Note:** This management pack does not depend on Microsoft SQL Server Library management pack. You do not need to import it to enable the monitoring of SQL Server 2014. 
Note: This management pack is only for SQL Server 2014. Please use this link to download Microsoft Operations Manager Management Pack for SQL Server 2005/2008/2012. 

**Note:** If you are going to localize this management pack, keep in mind that localization installers on this page do not include files for localizing SQL Server Dashboards. Please use this link to download the required localization for Dashboards. 

**Feature Summary**
The following list gives an overview of the features introduced by Microsoft System Center Operations Manager Management Pack for SQL Server 2014. Please refer to Microsoft SQL Server 2014 Management Pack Guide for more details. 

* Discovery and monitoring of SQL Server 2014 roles like DB Engine, Integrations Services.
* Discovery of SQL Server 2014 components: Databases, SQL Agent and SQL jobs.
* The management pack introduces 100+ monitors and 380+ rules to provide a deep monitoring of SQL Server 2014. Please refer to Microsoft SQL Server 2014 Management Pack Guide for the complete list of monitoring scenarios and workflow inventory.
* Monitoring of SQL Server 2014 Always On:
  * Automatic discovery and monitoring of availability groups, availability replicas, and availability databases.
  * Health roll-up from availability database to availability replicas.
  * Detailed knowledge for each related monitoring workflow.
* Seamless integration with SQL Server 2014 policy based management (PBM):
  * Automatic discovery and monitoring of custom PBM polices targeted to Database or Database components.
  * Rollup of policy execution health to the health of related SCOM entity.
* Monitoring of SQL Server In-Memory OLTP.
* Reports for long-term analysis of different problematic areas related to SQL Server 2014, such as SQL Server lock analysis, top deadlocked databases, SQL Server service pack levels, user connection activity. In addition, generic reports from the Microsoft Generic Report Library can be used to review availability and performance of objects discovered by Microsoft System Center Operations Manager Management Pack for SQL Server 2014.
* Low-privilege monitoring is supported for both stand-alone installations and clustered environments, except PBM.
* Support for Mirroring Monitoring
  * Discover mirroring databases, witness, and mirroring group.
* Monitor database mirror state, database mirror witness state, and mirroring partners’ state.
* Custom diagram view to represent the primary and the mirrored databases visually.

**New Features and Fixes**
* Added rules for alerting when an Availability Replica changed its role and/or a Database Replica changed its role
* Created a group for WOW64 SQL Server instances and disabled launching some workflows for these instances
* Added MP version line into MP's events generated by scripts
* Fixed display strings and Knowledge Base articles
* Fixed: some scripts do not return data when one of few installed instances is stopped
* Fixed: SPN configuration monitor uses stale data
* Fixed: Mirroring monitoring scripts fail when instance is stopped
* Fixed Smart Admin policies monitoring
* Fixed Always On Database replica discovery incorrect behavior; fixed Always On policies discovery and monitoring
* Fixed Database policies discovery and monitoring
* Fixed and optimized CPU Usage monitoring scripts (the issue appeared when only one core was assigned)
* Added support for more than 32 processors count in CPU Usage monitoring.
* SQLPS module is now used for the tasks instead of deprecated SQLPS.EXE
* Implemented FILESTREAM filegroup monitoring
* FILESTREAM is now supported on the summary dashboard
* Multiple Ports are now supported in SQL Server TCP/IP parameters
* Fixed error occurring when no port is specified in SQL Server TCP/IP parameters
* Fixed filegroup read-only state discovery
* Fixed RunAs profiles mapping for some workflows
* Changed implementation of Memory-Optimized Data free space calculation
* Added Memory-Optimized Data Stale Checkpoint File Pairs Ratio Monitor
* Implemented support for TLS 1.2 in connection logic
* Implemented support for different client drivers in connection logic
* Updated connection logic error logging
* Updated SMO usage in Always On workflows to support the new connection logic
* Fixed issue: CPU usage monitor ignored SQL server limitations on CPU core count
* Fixed display strings and Knowledge Base articles
* Fixed error reporting in the scripts
* Fixed intermittent "Cannot login to database" alert with some rules
* Fixed display string for AgentsGroup.Discovery
* Added support of SQL Server Express Instances
* Always On issue: Events “967” are no longer fired for Filegroup and Files discoveries when server has a non-readable Database
* Database Discovery issue fixed: masterDB is to be used if the target is inaccessible
* Database size issue: filter < 0 values in provider, return data for file size
* Win10 support: fixed "Cannot bind argument to parameter 'Path' because it is an empty string." issue
* Agent Job Discovery is now disabled by default
* Fixed issue when SQL Configuration Manager starts snap-in of wrong version
* Fixed invalid Always On non-readable replica detection
* Updated summary dashboards

###System Requirements###
**Supported Operating System**

Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2012 R2

**Other Software**
* System Center Operations Manager 2007 R2, System Center Operations Manager 2012, or System Center Operations Manager 2012 R2
* SQL Server 2014

**Supported Configurations**

This MP is designed to monitor the SQL Server 2014 in the following configurations:
* 32-bit SQL Server on 32-bit operating system
* 64-bit SQL Server on 64-bit operating system
* Clustered configurations are supported

###Install Instructions###
For detailed instructions on setup, configuration, and monitoring refer to the management pack guide.

###Related Resource###

[System Center Operations Manager 2012] (http://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh205987.aspx)

[Microsoft Home Page](https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/)

[Microsoft SQL Server Home Page](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/cloud-platform/sql-server)
